the other things that are on import.
And one of the best ways to figure out
what else is on import is just to do
everyone's favorite thing,
which is just console.log things.
I understand there's a whole
bunch of tools out there, but
you know which one I like?
I like me some console log.
So we have import meta,
import meta this part of it is
definitely part of web standard.
If you are in like node using ES modules,
you can do import meta.url that
is a standard like what they is
the current URL of the file.
But if we look at importmeta
in our tooling real quick,
in our console, so you've got that URL.
And then you've also got Vite adds in .env.
And you can see that
it'll actually show you
some environment variables in this case.
And what's important to note
is that in development, sure,
yeah, these are whatever the current
environment is in production.
It is whatever the environment was
when you built the app, right,
because you're building static assets that
don't have access to any of this anymore.
But you can kind of see some, I think some
of the more useful ones are this dev,
right, am I in development or not?
If I show you,
here I'll show you real quick, and
we'll talk a little bit more about
this when we look at some plugins.
But if I go to my local version of
the course website, I am very lazy.
And I made myself this open
in Visual Studio Code, so
it'll open Visual Studio Code in
the Markdown file I'm looking at right now
that's on my file system.
And I'll show you the plugin a little
bit if you really want to see it, but
that's using that like, okay, if you know
import.meta.env, if I'm in dev mode,
show me this, otherwise, this doesn't mean
anything right to somebody who sees it
on the production website.
So it's like things that I only show in
development, and this could be all sorts
of things, like if you wanted to have some
kind of way to load different state into
your store, like in Redux or
whatever, when you're in development.
You could have like certain
things that you show, or
like mock out the API only in development,
so on and so forth,
using like mock service worker or
something like that.
The dev and prod flags are super useful.
If we go back,
we can see the base URL, like, yeah,
I could change that to have
a subdirectory, whether or
not we're using server side rendering for
that page, so on and so forth.
The mode, right now is development.
If I were to go to, it would be build in
the case of build So on and so forth.
And we can actually add more
things in here, as well,
by adding environment files.
And so environment files are a way
to basically have other environment
variables.
And there's some rules,
because it's not just going to take any
environment variable in your machine.
That would be bad, right?
Because that's everything
even at build time.
What OS are you running?
And if you do process at env in Node you
can see it's a giant file of stuff you
probably are not super interested in
shipping in your client side code, right?
And so
you notice that even in that environment,
there's not a lot in there,
but I can make a new file.
I can say .env, and in here,
I can put an environment variable, and
you're gonna see it not happen.
You won't see me equals hi,
and as you can guess,
what happens is you will not
see it because out of the box,
V itewill only include ones that have
the prefix Vite, can you change this?
Of course you can change it, right?
But it does make you like have to,
like opt in to allow listing
an environment variable, right?
So now you can see that it's
definitely in place there.
One of the things that I
learned the hard way If
you look in the part
that I wrote about this,
I think it's in this no it's
in this other section over here.
I wrote import.meta.env.
Because it will actually even replace
any of those values in your HTML as well
[LAUGH] I was like, why do I have
this big JavaScript object in here?
And I went to like 'cause it made
the formatting all weird and
went to go like search where I'm
like I didn't write all that,
that's why I had to
escape it a little bit.
But it will actually,
it can even interpolate those
values in your HTML as well.
But yeah, so you can ask if you just have
to put this Vite like you won't see me and
then like anything while
you will see me now, right?
Like, it's now a lie that
I prefixed it with Vite.
And so to have a variable that's
available in your client side code,
it does need to be prefixed with Vite in
this case, but like, you can change it,
I just don't, I will use Vite in ours.
You can make it "app".
You can make it whatever you want.
And the other thing that you can do is
this environment .env will be loaded in
all environments, right?
You can do for different modes.
So, for instance .env.local, right?
For instance, will only be loaded
doing local development, right?
So this is the mock data.
If you have a different endpoint in
development than you do in production,
you might have a different
setup here as well, right?
And so here I can go.
Right, and this could be a different
database, name and password and
URL in this case and
you will see all that.
So now if I want to go build this,
that one would not appear in
the build because it's only
in local development, right?
And so you have ones that you can do for
production, you have ones you can do for
local, and you can set the environment
variables as you want.
And these are added in
by Vite in this case.
And so we have it set up for
different endpoints.
Like, locally, yeah,
we have a server running localhost 3000,
in production it's got a fully qualified
domain name, so on and so forth.
You can set all these things, and
you basically kind of get it for free, and
it's like reading these files
as you go through, right?
And like I said, if you don't put
the prefix, you don't get it.
So that's the only, like,
kind of tasty note that you need to
kind of keep in mind in this case.
>> To import.meta,
it doesn't seem to work with TS config.
If we're setting up a proxy,
how do we get the environment variable?
>> That's a good question.
Okay, so if you are using, let's go
ahead and let's make a new file in here.
And let's watch TypeScript
get angry with us, right?
We'll say angry.ts, right, and
let's say we want to do console.log.
What is it?
import.meta.env, right?
It's very upset with us, right?
Because import, that's a web standard.
Import.meta, that's a web standard.
Import.meta.url, that's a web standard.
Import.meta.env, that's
a Vite-specific thing, right?
And so he's like, now what?
All that you need to do is have somewhere,
right, like.
I you'll, you'll see this in the,
if you choose TypeScript,
you'll probably actually even see this in
that template that we did with React and
TypeScript as well.
There's some kind of any,
it doesn't have to be vite.d.ts.
It could be any,
any one of your declaration files.
Yeah, there's reference types,
vite/client.
If you put this in, like, this is going to
say, you can actually refer to it in your
TS config too, but it's going to say, hey,
vite, pull in all the types that you know
about from like that you're adding in for
all the stuff that you're doing.
So now if let's go grab this and
bring it back over to the other
project and now if we look at angry.ts.
It's totally happy with the env
because we're basically,
Vite has stepped in and added all of its
types and declared them on the modules for
everything that it's
adding into the scene.
So if you are, other than changing the .ts
if you're using Vite-specific stuff,
all you need is a d.ts file with
a reference to the client types for vite.
And you will then get all those types for
free.
Awesome, and so but then what about
we're not out of the woods yet,
we're not out of the woods.
So let's do, I don't know what
happens over there all time,
import.meta.env, what was it?
VITE, you won't see me or you will see me
That one gets marked as any,
it works because vite's like they're
probably putting stuff
on this environment.
So it works but
no one feels good about this, right?
And so in this case,
if you are going to define your own,
now they are all going to be strings, but
we don't know if this one exists or not.
I would really like to like know.
So I'll kind of show you.
I actually like, for this purpose,
I grabbed the one from my own app.
I'll just kind of show you because we
don't use a ton of these variables.
I'll just kind of show you the one that I
use in our app, which is you can basically
take that interface because if you looked
back over here is that import.meta M,
that's what's vite's
adding to the equation.
What I can do is then for
the ones that I know that we have, so
like we have a cloud product,
we have an open-source product,
they have slightly different APIs
of the servers that we talk to.
And so
I can theoretically have conditions.
Okay, if we're targeting our
cloud product, hit this endpoint,
if we're targeting the open source,
do this other thing, right?
And then at build time,
those will get actually compressed into,
whatever the build target was.
And I don't have to think about it.
So I can build two different
versions of the app.
So I just, defined as a read only
string in my application, but for
the most part That's all
I'm really adding in there.
And I'm adding all of whether or
not we're in Vitest.
I practice saying Vite a lot.
I did not practice saying Vitest.
And now I'm scared to watch
the Enterprise UI workshop because do I
just call it Vitest the entire time?
I have to, right, because I didn't
even think to practice that, in that case.
Vitest, right?
We were growing as people
were becoming better.
We're learning,
we're pronouncing things right.
And so I can like pull in those as well.
And then yeah, so if using TypeScript and
you need the types around this stuff,
super easy to add,
you add this you get most of the types for
any of your custom stuff.
You can basically just add
those classes on there as well.
And you will get it and
have everything there as well.
So that was a great
question with great timing.
And there's not like a lot
like environment variables are
environment variables you know, the ones
that you need, right, based on your app.
They're a little bit different for
everyone.
Most of you are probably not
building something different for
an open-source product versus a cloud
product, but you might have development.
Because the thing about working on
an open-source server is I can run my own
product, localhost, the real deal, but
for most people that's not true, right?
So you might have your SQLite database or
your mock API or something like that,
only use mock service worker,
which is something for mocking out APIs,
client-side, if we're in
development otherwise,
fall through to the regular app.
Those are all options, but those are all
very, what you need will depend on your
setup, but the way that you solve it,
is always gonna be the same,
which is to define whatever environment
variables you need for that information.
You can pull them in as you need them,
and everything's gonna be great.